# WallyToolbox.jl

General tools I use everyday for everything.

`WallyToolbox.jl` contains (among other things) an unpublished rolling release package composed of several sub-modules not making part of the main package and currently not following any versioning semantics. That means that new features are added and only the commits track differences. This is temporary and will be modified when all the old code base that is giving origing to the package is migrated here. Nonetheless, the package will probably not be published to Julia registries because of the way its governance works. `WallyToolbox.jl` tries to be self-contained in several aspects because of the needs of perfect integration between functionalities of several of its foreseen end applications. That is currently incompatible with using some of the state-of-the-art packages from Julia ecosystem.

## Using Julia modules

```bash
# Launch this directory as a project:
julia --project=.
```

To be able to use module `WallyToolbox.Notebook`, an user-defined value of environment variable `JUPYTER_DATA_DIR` must be provided to avoid conflict with system files. It must be noticed that this utility module is undocumented. For the other modules, please consult the [documentation](https://wallytutor.github.io/WallyToolbox.jl/dev/).

## Using Python modules

```bash
# Install `virtualenv`:
pip install virtualenv

# Alternativelly use built-in `venv`:
# python -m venv venv

# Create a virtual environment:
virtualenv venv

# Activate the environment:
./venv/Scripts/activate

# Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Documentation

Documentation is generated by a GitHub Actions workflow at every commit to the main branch. Because of the multiple modules in a repository structure, this documentation follows *intrinsically* a rolling release logic. Because the package and modules are not registered, they also do not appear in the `docs/Project.toml`. So it is up to the maintainers to ensure that section `[deps]` of `docs/Project.toml` points to **ALL** dependencies of **ALL** subpackages.

For generating the documentation locally, run `julia --project=docs/` and in REPL run the following command:

```repl
julia> include("docs/make.jl")
   Resolving package versions...
   ...
```
